docs(iot): many fix and cloud twins documentation int-fix-iot (#142)
scaleway/docs-content: iot/iot-hub/api-cli/connecting-twins-to-grafana-cloud.mdx

---
title: How to connect IoT Cloud Twins to Grafana Cloud
description: This tutorial shows how to connect Cloud Twins to a graphite instance on Grafana Cloud.
totalTime: PT15M
steps:
  - step: TODO
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/iot/iot-hub/how-to/connect-twins-to-grafana-cloud/
image: /assets/images/docs/scaleway.png
keywords: iot, smart, connected, embedded, devices, hubs, mqtt, twins, document store, document, cache, data, graphite, grafana
---

> This tutorial will show how to connect Cloud Twins to a graphite instance on Grafana Cloud.

Author: changed the end to "(updates or modifications of its document's values)." which is more accurate, thanks for the suggestion !

- You have [created a Grafana Cloud account](https://grafana.com/products/cloud/)

 - Your Device allows insecure connections

</Message>

<Message type="note">

In production, you should `Deny Insecure` connections to have the highest level of security.

</Message>

Configure the following variables from a terminal on your local computer:

```bash
IOT_API="https://api.scaleway.com/iot/v1/regions/fr-par"
SCW_SECRET_KEY="<your scaleway API secret key here>"
SCW_PROJECT="<your project ID here>"
HUB_ID="<the hub_id of the hub you created>"
DEVICE_ID="<the device_id of the device you added>"
```

## Connect your hub to Grafana Cloud

1. Recover your username under `user identifier` on the Grafana [credentials page](https://grafana.com/orgs/user-identifier/api-keys).

2. Generate a MetricsPublisher key and store the returned token (`GRAPHITE_TOKEN`).

	<Message type="tip">

	See [Create a Grafana Cloud API key](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/reference/create-api-key/) for details.

	</Message>

3. Go to your Grafana instance: https://user-identifier.grafana.net/

    where `user-identifier` is your username.

4. Go to the graphite configuration panel:

> 	-Select **Configuration**, then **Data sources** in the menu (A)

Author: thanks, fixed

	- Select Graphite on the list (B)

> 	<Lightbox src="assets/grafanacloud-configuration-datasource-menu-graphite.png" alt="" />

Author: yes, the page has moved from one section to the other, thanks for spotting that !

5. Get the following information from the Graphite configuration panel:
	- In the `HTTP` box, find the `URL` value and note the host part (`GRAPHITE_HOST`, `graphite-us-central1.grafana.net` in the example) (A)
	- In the `Auth` box, find the `Basic Auth Details` and note the user (a number as your `GRAPHITE_USERID`) (B)

	<Lightbox src="assets/grafanacloud-datasource-graphite-settings.png" alt="" />

> 6. The push uri is constructed as follows:

Author: done

	```
	https://GRAPHITE_USERID:GRAPHITE_TOKEN@GRAPHITE_HOST/metrics
	```

	So it should look like:
	```
	https://12345:SecReTApiKEyVaLuE@graphite-us-central1.grafana.net/metrics
	```

7. Set the graphite push uri in your hub's configuration:

	<Message type="note">

	This beta feature is not available in the console, please use the API.

	</Message>

	```bash
	curl -sS -H "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_SECRET_KEY" -X PATCH $IOT_API/hubs/$HUB_ID -d '{
		"twins_graphite_config": {
			"push_uri": "https://'$GRAPHITE_USERID':'$GRAPHITE_TOKEN'@'$GRAPHITE_HOST'/metrics"
			}
		}'
	```

	The Hub is now connected to Grafana cloud.

> ## Twin

Author: what about "Using the Twin with Grafana" ?

### Document format

```json
{
    "state": {
        "enable": true,
        "value": 12.5,
        "text": "ignored"
    },
    "data": {
        "value": 7.5,
        "in error": false
    }
}
```

### Configuration document

Let us consider we want to trace:
- any write on the `state` (even when setting the same value twice)
- changes on the `data` part of the document

> - we add a tag to those values in order to recover them easily in grafana.

Author: right, moved to it's own sentence

1. Create the document
	```bash
	curl -sS -H "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_SECRET_KEY" -X PUT $IOT_API/twins/$DEVICE_ID/documents/current -d '{
	  "data": {
	    "state": {
	      "enable": false,
	      "text": "ignored"
	    }
	  }
	}' | jq
	```

2. Change it
	```bash
	curl -sS -H "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_SECRET_KEY" -X PUT $IOT_API/twins/$DEVICE_ID/documents/current -d '{
	  "data": {
	    "state": {
	      "enable": true,
	      "value": 12.5,
	      "text": "ignored"
	    },
	    "data": {
	      "value": 7.5,
	      "in error": false
	    }
	  }
	}' | jq
	```

3. Update only the `data` section using patch
	```bash
	curl -sS -H "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_SECRET_KEY" -X PATCH $IOT_API/twins/$DEVICE_ID/documents/current -d '{
	  "data": {
	    "data": {
	      "value": 12.5
	    }
	  }
	}' | jq
	```

4. Set the whole document again, without changing anything
	```bash
	curl -sS -H "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_SECRET_KEY" -X PUT $IOT_API/twins/$DEVICE_ID/documents/current -d '{
	  "data": {
	    "state": {
	      "enable": true,
	      "value": 12.5,
	      "text": "ignored"
	    },
	    "data": {
	      "value": 12.5,
	      "in error": false
	    }
	  }
	}' | jq
	```

### Show the event in grafana

> 1. Go to your grafana instance explore panel

Author: Thanks, I changed all grafana to Grafana except in urls

	- select Explore (A)
	- ensure the graphite source is selected (B)
	- click on the pen to switch to the query editor (C)

> 	<Lightbox src="assets/grafanacloud-explore.png" alt="" />

Author: yes, moves the 4 of them ;)

> 2. See your data

Author: done

description: This tutorial shows how to connect Cloud Twins to a graphite instance on Grafana Cloud.
totalTime: PT15M
steps:
  - step: TODO
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/iot/iot-hub/how-to/connect-twins-to-grafana-cloud/
image: /assets/images/docs/scaleway.png
keywords: iot, smart, connected, embedded, devices, hubs, mqtt, twins, document store, document, cache, data, graphite, grafana
---

This tutorial will show how to connect Cloud Twins to a Graphite instance on Grafana Cloud. This allows you to monitor and view events on your Cloud Twin (updates or modifications of its document's values).

<Message type="note">

The twins feature is currently in **beta** status.

</Message>

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into [the Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have installed [curl](https://curl.se/) and [`jq` (json parsing tool)](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) on your local computer
- You have [created an IoT Hub](/iot/iot-hub/how-to/create-hub/)
- You have [added a device](/iot/iot-hub/how-to/add-device/)
- You have [created a Grafana Cloud account](https://grafana.com/products/cloud/)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

 - Your Device allows insecure connections

</Message>

<Message type="note">

> In production, you should `Deny Insecure` connections to have the highest level of security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When designing a production system, you should `Deny Insecure` connections to have the highest level of security.
```
